{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 /* Welcome to the SQL mini project. For this project, you will use
Springboard' online SQL platform, which you can log into through the
following link:

{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sql.springboard.com/ }}{\fldrslt{https://sql.springboard.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22
Username: student
Password: learn_sql@springboard

The data you need is in the "country_club" database. This database
contains 3 tables:
    i) the "Bookings" table,
    ii) the "Facilities" table, and
    iii) the "Members" table.

Note that, if you need to, you can also download these tables locally.

In the mini project, you'll be asked a series of questions. You can
solve them using the platform, but for the final deliverable,
paste the code for each solution into this script, and upload it
to your GitHub.
Before starting with the questions, feel free to take your time,
exploring the data, and getting acquainted with the 3 tables. */

/* Q1: Some of the facilities charge a fee to members, but some do not.
Please list the names of the facilities that do. */
 Sol:
 SELECT Facilities.name , Facilities.name
FROM Facilities\par
WHERE ( Facilities.membercost >0 )
ORDER BY Facilities.name 

/* Q2: How many facilities do not charge a fee to members? */
 Sol:
 SELECT COUNT( Facilities.name ) AS count
FROM Facilities
WHERE ( Facilities.membercost =0 )

/* Q3: How can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members,
where the fee is less than 20% of the facility's monthly maintenance cost?
Return the facid, facility name, member cost, and monthly maintenance of the
facilities in question. */
Sol:
SELECT Facilities.facid , Facilities.name , Facilities.membercost , Facilities.monthlymaintenance
FROM Facilities
WHERE ( Facilities.membercost < ( 0.2 * ( Facilities.monthlymaintenance ) ))

/* Q4: How can you retrieve the details of facilities with ID 1 and 5?
Write the query without using the OR operator. */\par
Sol:
SELECT Facilities . *
FROM Facilities
WHERE (
Facilities.facid
IN ( 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 )
)
/* Q5: How can you produce a list of facilities, with each labelled as
'cheap' or 'expensive', depending on if their monthly maintenance cost is
more than $100? Return the name and monthly maintenance of the facilities
in question. */
Sol:
SELECT Facilities.name , Facilities.monthlymaintenance ,
CASE WHEN Facilities.monthlymaintenance >100
THEN 'expensive'
ELSE 'cheap' END AS label
FROM Facilities

/* Q6: You'd like to get the first and last name of the last member(s)
who signed up. Do not use the LIMIT clause for your solution. */
Sol:
SELECT Members.firstname , Members.surname , Members.joindate
FROM Members
ORDER BY Members.joindate DESC

/* Q7: How can you produce a list of all members who have used a tennis court?
Include in your output the name of the court, and the name of the member formatted as a single column. Ensure no duplicate data, and order by the member name. */\par
Sol:

SELECT DISTINCT F.name as facility_name,
                concat(M.firstname , ' ', M.surname) as member_name 
FROM Bookings B 
INNER JOIN Facilities F ON B.facid = F.facid
INNER JOIN Members M ON B.memid = M.memid
                     AND B.memid > 0
WHERE F.name LIKE Tennis Court%
ORDER BY 2

/* Q8: How can you produce a list of bookings on the day of 2012-09-14 which will cost the member (or guest) more than $30? Remember that guests have different costs to members (the listed costs are per half-hour 'slot'), and\par
the guest user's ID is always 0. Include in your output the name of the facility, the name of the member formatted as a single column, and the cost.\par
Order by descending cost, and do not use any subqueries. */
 Sol:
SELECT F.name, CONCAT( M.firstname, M.surname ) AS membername, F.membercost, F.guestcost,B.starttime
FROM Bookings B
INNER JOIN Members M ON B.memid = M.memid
INNER JOIN Facilities F ON B.facid = F.facid
WHERE LEFT( B.starttime, 10 ) = '2012-09-14' AND (F.membercost >30 OR F.guestcost>30)
ORDER BY 3 DESC

/* Q9: This time, produce the same result as in Q8, but using a subquery. */
 Sol:

SELECT F.name,F.membercost,F.guestcost, sub.membername\par
FROM (
SELECT CONCAT( M.firstname, M.surname ) AS membername, B.starttime, B.facid AS facidr
FROM Bookings B
 INNER JOIN Members M ON B.memid = M.memidr
WHERE LEFT( B.starttime, 10 ) = '2012-09-14'
 )sub
INNER JOIN Facilities F ON F.facid = sub.facidr
WHERE F.membercost >30 OR F.guestcost>30
ORDER BY 2 DESC

/* Q10: Produce a list of facilities with a total revenue less than 1000.
The output of facility name and total revenue, sorted by revenue. Remember
that there's a different cost for guests and members! */
Sol:
select name, revenue from (
  -- Revenue = Income - Expense
  SELECT fac.facid, fac.name, (income - expense) as revenue
  from Facilities fac
  JOIN
  -- Calculate income from member bookings (Assume 1 member and 1 guest for each booking)
  (SELECT fac.facid, fac.name, COUNT * (fac.membercost + fac.guestcost) as income,0
     FROM Bookings bks
     JOIN Facilities fac
     ON bks.facid = fac.facid
     GROUP by fac.facid, fac.name) as T1_income
  ON T1_income.facid = fac.facid
  JOIN 
  -- Calculate expense from monthlymaintenance cost over the months spanned by the entries in the Bookings table
  (SELECT fac.facid, 0, fac.monthlymaintenance * months as expense
    FROM Facilities fac
JOIN 
    -- Determine the number of months spanned by dates in Bookings table for a given facility, 
    -- rounded to the nearest integer
    (select facid, round(DATEDIFF(maxi,mini) / 30) as months from 
      ( select fac2.facid, max(bks2.starttime) as maxi, min(bks2.starttime) as mini
           FROM Bookings bks2
           JOIN Facilities fac2
           ON fac2.facid = bks2.facid
           GROUP BY fac2.facid
       ) A1
    ) as mm
    ON 
    mm.facid = fac.facid
    ) as T1_expense
  ON T1_expense.facid = fac.facid
) B
-- Show only facilities whose revenue is less than 1000
where revenue < 1000
"""
